# Neuro

**My name** is Jan and I am a 21 years old computer science and maths master student from Germany working in the Jülich Supercomputing Centre (FZJ). Neuroscience has been faszinating me for many years now, actually for exactly 11 years now after my parents declared me mad when I told them I want to develop a neural implant to read thoughts. Thinking about it, from a 10 years old this might actually sound somewhat crazy :sweat_smile:  However, now 11 years later I am starting to truly understand the human brain and nervous system in general which does no longer let me want to read peoples thoughts, instead I see a lot more potential in the area. Now this might again sound crazy even for a 21 year old, but in my opinion "Life 3.0" (Tegmark, 2017) is not limited to machines, by monitoring, controlling and improving the human body and especially the brain, we can optimize our own lives and bring humanity one step closer to perfection.  
The opportunities BMIs open up are literally endless, from instantly learning any skill to completely revolutionizing health and medicine (e.g. restoring eyesight).  

**My goal** for the next 1-2 years is to amass as many information in this area as I possibly can to cover everything from how a single neuron works to complex topics like consciousness. I want to combine facts, research and todays tools with fiction to get an overview of the current technological state and define the next development steps. The semi-fictional part will probably the most interesting, I want to discuss all the opportunities that will open up and outline what our life will look like in 10, 20, 50, etc. years. After gathering enough information I want to restructure everything and share the information in form of a book.  

- [[Human Brain Connection]]
- [[Application areas]]
- [[Imagination]]
- [[Simulating the human brain]]
- [[Nervous system]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[Human Brain Connection]: Human Brain Connection\human-brain-connection "Human Brain Connection"
[Application areas]: Application Areas\application-areas "Application Areas"
[Imagination]: Imagination\imagination "Imagination"
[Simulating the human brain]: Simulating the human brain\simulating-the-human-brain "Simulating the Human Brain"
[Nervous system]: Nervous system\nervous-system "Nervous System"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
