# Audition

## Ear components
Ears capture the mechanical energy of sound waves, efficiently transmit that energy to receptors and those receptors must translate that energy into electrical signals. These three processes are carried out by three structural components of the ear: The outer ear (pinna), the middle ear (ossicles) and the inner ear (vestibule, semicircular canals and cochlea).
The function of the outer ear is to collect sounds from a wide area of our environment. The captured sound waves move towards the middle ear, through an air-filled auditory canal, which extends about two and 1/2 centimeters inside the skull. Sound waves that pass through the auditory canal reach the eardrum, also known as the tympanic membrane. And this causes it to move inward and outward at the same frequency as the sound wave. The mechanical vibration of the tympanic membrane is then transferred across the air-filled middle ear There are three ossicles, the malleus, the incus, and the stapes, also known as the hammer, anvil, and stirrup. The malleus is attached to the tympanic membrane. So it moves when the tympanic membrane moves. The malleus moving causes the incus to move, which in turn causes the stapes to move. The foot plate of the stapes moves against the second membrane, covering the oval window, which is a small hole in our skull bone. When the stapes vibrates against this membrane, it creates waves in the fluid inside the cochlea that represents the pressure fluctuations of the sound wave in air.
Ossicles of the middle ear are structured in such a way that they can take a given amount of incoming pressure, and increase the pressure output by a factor of about 30. This process is called impedance matching. It not only recovers the pressure intensity that is lost due to reflection, but it can also amplify otherwise soft sounds.
The inner ear consists of three main parts: The vestibule, the semicircular canals and the cochlea.
The vestibule and the semicircular canals are part of the vestibular system, which allows us to balance.
The cochlea is a complex organ that is part of the auditory system and is responsible for transforming the vibration of sound waves into neuronal signals that will eventually be perceived by the brain as sound. It is a coiled-up structure that contains a membrane called the basilar membrane that in turn vibrates in response to sound. Attached to this membrane are sensory neurons called hair cells that transduce mechanical movements into electrical signals.
The main tube of the cochlea actually consists of three liquid-filled tubes. The top tube is called the scala vestibuli. The bottom is the scala tympani. And the middle tube is the scala media. There are two membranes that separate these three tubes Reissner's membrane, and the Basilar membrane. Sitting directly on top of the Basilar membrane is the organ of Corti, and on top of that is the Tectorial membrane.
The mechanical properties of basilar membrane vary along the length of the cochlea. At the base of the cochlea, the basilar membrane is thin and taut. As you move along the membrane towards the apex of the cochlea, the basilar membrane becomes increasingly broad and floppy. The basilar membrane is tonotopically mapped based on its mechanical properties. Therefore, the hair cells that sit on it are optimally sensitive to a particular frequency according to their position in the basilar membrane. This process is known as place coding.
The cochlea is filled with two fluids: The endolymph and the perilymph. The scala vestibuli and the scala tympani are both filled with the perilymph, which is pretty similar to cerebrospinal fluid in terms of its ionic content: Low potassium and high sodium. The scala media is filled with the endolymph, which has an ionic content similar to intracellular fluids: High potassium and low sodium. The differences in ionic concentrations between the two fluids is generated by active transport of ions at the stria vascularis, which lines one wall of the scala media. This means that there is an electrical potential of about positive 80 millivolts between the endolymph and the perilymph.

## Mechanotransduction
When the sound waves hit the middle ear and cause the ossicles to move, the footplate of the stapes pushes onto the oval window membrane. This displaces the perilymph in the scala vestibuli and scala tympani, causing the basilar membrane to vibrate.
At the top of a hair cell are ~60 tiny hair-like structures called stereocilia that together form a hair bundle. The stereocilia are attached to the bottom of the tectorial membrane. When a sound wave causes the basilar membrane to vibrate relative to the tectorial membrane, the stereocilia tilt either toward or away from the tall edge of the hair bundle. When the stereocilia are tilted toward their tall edge from the shearing force, a set of non-selective cation channels open. Tilting them away from their tall edge closes these channels. These changes in electrical potential in the hair cells cause the hair cells to release neurotransmitter, which causes depolarization and spiking of cells in a structure called the spiral ganglion. Spikes are carried to the brain along the auditory nerve to a sequence of nuclei in the brainstem before eventually reaching the midbrain, thalamus, and the auditory cortex.
A complex of nuclei in the brainstem known as the cochlear nucleus is located in the dorsolateral side of the brainstem, spanning the junction of the pons and the medulla. The cochlear nucleus consists of two heterogeneous collections of neurons whose inputs come from the cochlear nerve and whose outputs go towards higher regions of the auditory brainstem. Auditory nerves enervate the cochlear nucleus in a spatial pattern that matches their spatial organization in the basilar membrane of the cochlea, forming a highly organized network based on the frequencies to which each nerve is tuned.
After the cochlear nucleus, auditory signals are carried deeper into the brain via two distinct pathways before ultimately reaching the auditory cortex. One set of signals is sent from the cochlear nucleus to the superior olive. The superior olive marks the first place where auditory signals from both ears come together, are paired, and integrated. Two specialized groups of cells in distinct regions of the superior olive encode differences in sound intensity or loudness as well as timing differences between the sound perceived by the left ear versus the right ear. From the superior olive, auditory information is sent to the inferior colliculus, which is the principal nucleus of the auditory pathway in the midbrain. The inferior colliculus allows orienting ourselves in response to auditory stimuli.
The second set of signals leaving the cochlear nucleus bypasses the superior olive and goes straight to the inferior colliculus. Once these two sets of signals are processed in the inferior colliculus, they are sent on to the medial geniculate nucleus. The medial geniculate nucleus is the auditory subdivision of the thalamus. It is made up of a number of distinct cell types forming distinct layers.
From the medial geniculate nucleus, auditory information is sent to the auditory cortex, where a more complex analysis of the content of a sound is performed. Auditory cortex is also likely where the sound is perceived consciously. The primary auditory cortex is located bilaterally in the temporal lobes, roughly near Brodmann areas 41 and 42. he primary auditory cortex is organized in layers. Layer 1 contains few cell bodies, while Layer 2 and 3 mostly contain small pyramidal neurons. Layer 4  is where axons from the MGN synapse, and it is densely packed with granule cells.
The tonotopic map that begins in the basilar membrane of the cochlea is carried through to the auditory cortex, forming columns of neurons that respond to similar frequencies. These columns are known as isofrequency bands. Low frequencies are analyzed by neurons at the rostral and lateral ends of the primary auditory cortex and high frequencies are analyzed by caudal and medial ends.
Cortical auditory neurons, similar to neurons in earlier stages of the auditory pathway, also encode information in different temporal response patterns. In addition to frequency tuning, some cortical auditory neurons are intensity-tuned, meaning they preferentially respond to a particular sound intensity. Specialized neurons have also been found in auditory cortex that respond to various specific types of sounds.
There are other highly-specialized areas of cortex that receive auditory inputs as well. One of these is the second stage of auditory processing in cortex, which responds particularly well to things like phonemes.
The entire processing stream in audition is bilateral.