# Olfaction
## Receptors
The human genome consists of about a thousand different odorant receptors, while about 30-40% of these genes are functional.
According to the shape-pattern theory, scent perception depends on the amount of structural fit between an odorant receptor's shape and the odorant's shape. Therefore, an odorant can have different smells depending on which parts of its chemical structure bind to a given odorant receptor.
In addition to the shape-pattern theory, it turns out that we can also detect the pattern of activity across variant odor receptor types, and the intensity of a given odorant also changes which receptors will be activated. the specific timing and order in which an odorant receptor is activated also influences how odors are perceived.
The olfactory system has evolved mechanisms for disentangling odors - mixtures of odorants - even when they co-activate some of the same olfactory receptors.In the case of olfaction, this is thought to rely on the turbulent movement of odorant compounds in plumes originating from the odorant source.

## Olfactory Processing
When air and odorants enter our nose through the nostrils, they pass the olfactory cleft, a space at the back of our nose where the main olfactory epithelium is located. The olfactory epithelium is specialized epithelial tissue whose primary function is to detect odorants. It measures about three square centimeters on each side and lies about seven above and behind the nostril. It consists of three primary cell types: The supporting cells, the basal cells, and the olfactory sensory neurons. Supporting cells primarily provide metabolic and physical support for the olfactory neurons, while basal cells are the precursor cells to the olfactory sensory neurons and thus present a pool of renewable neurons in a stem cell-like state. Olfactory sensory neurons are small bipolar neurons located beneath a watery mucus layer. And they are the main cell type in the olfactory epithelium.
Olfactory sensory neurons congregate to form the olfactory nerve at the basal end, but are covered with a non-motile cilia, which are hair-like like protrusions at the apical end. The plasma membrane of these non-motile cilia contains the odorant binding proteins that act as olfactory receptors, which initiates olfactory signal transduction. Tt typically takes at least seven or eight odorant molecules binding to a receptor to initiate the action potential in the olfactory sensory neurons.
Axons from the olfactory sensory neurons have to pass through the cribriform plate, a bony structure with tiny holes at the level of eyebrows separating the nose from the brain. The axons of the olfactory sensory neurons bundle together after passing through the cribriform plate to form the olfactory nerve, also known as the first cranial nerve. The olfactory nerve is one of the central nervous systems nerves capable of regeneration. From the olfactory nerve, olfactory information is passed on through the mitral cell projections in the olfactory bulb, a blueberry-sized extension of our brain just above the nose level which serves as the first critical relay station where olfactory information is processed. There are actually two olfactory bulbs, one in each brain hemisphere receiving incoming inputs from the left and right nostril.
Sensory neuron axons synapse onto mitral cells in the olfactory bulb, forming spherical glomeruli that contain the incoming axons of the olfactory sensory neurons. Typically, each olfactory sensory neuron converges onto two glomeruli, one medial and one lateral. From the mitral cells in the olfactory bulb, olfactory information is passed onto the primary olfactory cortex and other brain structures, most notably the limbic system. The primary olfactory cortex is the cortical area where incoming information is first processed.
Olfactory information also travels to the amygdala hippocampal complex, as well as the entorhinal cortex in the medial temporal lobe.
The majority of all olfactory processing is thought to occur in the right side of the brain