# Somatosensation
## Somatosensory sensoring
The somatosensory system is a complex sensory system made up of a number of different receptors and receptor types, including thermoreceptors, photoreceptors, mechanoreceptors and chemoreceptors. The term also includes the essential sensory modalities or processing centers needed to perceive input from these receptors such as propioception, mechanoception, thermoception and nociception.  
These describe our ability to sense body movement, touch, temperature, and pain respectively.
The sensory receptors of the somatosensory system cover our skin and epithelial tissues, our skeletal muscles, our bones and joints  and our internal as well as cardiovascular organs.  
Touch, pressure, heat, cold, and pain are together known as the cutaneous sensations, which are sensed by naked nerve endings in the skin. There these sensations are picked up by transient receptor potential (TRP) channels. TRP channels are a group of ion channels located in the plasma membrane of numerous human cell types where they mediate a variety of sensations, including pressure, volume, stretch, vibration, and even certain tastes. TRP channels are also sensitive to certain chemical ligands we often perceive as either hot, or spicy or cooling. Most TRP channels are non-selectively permeable to cations, including sodium, calcium, and magnesium, and thus can depolarize and activate a sensory neuron when stimulated.  
Pain sensation (nociception) is mediated by specific sensory neurons called nociceptors via free nerve endings that respond to tissue damage. Such tissue damage can be  induced by intense chemical, mechanical or thermal stimulation. Once stimulated, a pain sensory neuron sends a signal along the cascade of myelinated or non-myelinated nerve fibers via the spinal cord to the brain where appropriate motor responses and movements are triggered. Since nociceptive neurons generate trains of action potentials in response to intense stimuli, their firing frequency determines the intensity of the pain.  
The sense of touch emerges from specific mechanoreceptors that respond to mechanical pressure or distortion. Hairless, or glabrous, skin contains four types of mechanoreceptors: Pacinian corpuscles, Meissner's corpuscles, Merkel's disc, and Ruffini endings. Mechanoreceptors are also found in hairy skin, where naked nerve endings are wrapped around the hair follicles and sense distortion of the hair as a result of tactile perception.  

## Somatosensory processing
Processing of somatosensory input occurs primarily in somatosensory cortex in the parietal lobe of the cerebral cortex.  
Incoming information is sent to the brain from the sensory receptors via sensory nerves through tracts in the spinal cord.  
Three long neurons are generally involved in the somatosensory pathway called the primary, secondary and tertiary neurons. The primary, or first, neuron always has its soma in the dorsal root ganglion of the spinal nerve. The secondary neuron has its soma either in the spinal cord or in the brain stem. This neurons' axons will cross to the opposite side of the body and terminate either in the thalamus or in the cerebellum. In the case of touch and certain types of pain, the tertiary, or third, neuron has its cell body in the thalamus and ends in the postcentral gyrus of the parietal lobe, where the primary somatosensory cortex resides.  
Depending on where these somatosensory neurons reside and what modality they serve, there are large differences with respect to size, shape and properties of these neurons. In the periphery, slow, thin, and unmyelinated neurons conduct pain, while faster, thicker, and myelinated neurons conduct casual touch. The receptive field of such neurons is given by the sensory receptors supplying it, and thus, in turn, by a particular region of the body.  
The circuitry is activated when the activity is triggered in the sensory neuron by a specific stimulus, such as touch, temperature, or pain. The signals pass from the sensory neuron to the brain area attributed to that part of the body where the signal originated, thus, it can be felt at the correct location. In the somatosensory system, cortical maps follow the two dimensional organization of the skin forming a somatotopic map.  