# Vision
Visual information is recorded by the retina in the eye. From there is gets send over the optic nerve to the thalamus where inputs are sorted and begin to be processes. From there it is send to the visual cortex at the back of the brain where features are extracted from the visual scene such as shape, color, object identity, distance, motion, etc.  

## Receptors
There are two types of photoreceptors, rods and cones. Rods get activated in the dark when the light is very dim while cones need bright light to work. There are 20 times more rod than cone receptors in the eye.  
Photoreceptors have the capacity to react to electromagnetic energy. Certain molecules can absorb photons at particular wavelengths which causes the molecule to change shape. In rods, the conversion of light into a chemical signal is accomplished through a protein called rhodopsin. Rhodopsin is a membrane protein that is localized to the disks in the outer segment of the photo receptor. It's composed of a GPCR (opsin) and its ligand (retinal). Together, they form the visual pigment rhodopsin.  
Like any GPCR the binding of a ligand to the receptor activates the G proteins in the membrane, which in turn stimulates the downstream enzymatic generation of cytoplasmic second messenger molecules. It's the action of the second messenger molecules that can directly or indirectly change the conductance of ion channels with the effect of changing the neuronal membrane potential. In this case, what differentiates rhodopsins from other GPCRs is the fact that it's ligand retinal is already tightly bound to the GPCR protein backbone opsin. When a photon is absorbed by retinal, the shape of the retinal changes from 11-cis retinal to all-trans retinal. But this confirmational change in retinal also causes changes in the opsin backbone which cause activation of the G protein called transducin, which in turn leads to changes in the cytoplasmic concentration of second messenger molecules. In this case, cyclic GMP by the action of an enzyme known as cGMP phosphodiesterase, which lead to the modulation of cGMP-gated ion channels and changes in the membrane potential.  
While there is only one type of rod, there are three types of cones. Short wave cones, or S cones, detect blue light, with a peak wavelength of around 420 to 440 nanometers. Middle wave cones, or M cones, detect green light, with a peak wavelength at around 535 to 550 nanometers. Long wave cones, or L cones, detect red light, with a peak wavelength of around 565 to 580 nanometers. For comparison, rod cells have a peak sensitivity at around 498 nanometers, roughly halfway between the peak sensitivity of the short and middle wave cones. The spectral sensitivity and difference in the signals received from the three cone types allows the brain to perceive a continuous range of colors. All cone receptor types contain GPCR protein called photopsin, also known as cone opsin, which is able to transduce light in a similar manner as rods through the conversion of 11-cis retinal to all-trans retinal. The color sensitivity stems from the fact that the photopsin protein differs by a few amino acids for each cone type, thus allowing light absorption at different wavelengths.  

## Retinal Processing
The retina is organized in three main specialized cellular layers that are connected by two synaptic layers. The outer nuclear layer contains the photoreceptors, rods and cones. The inner nuclear layer contains interneurons, including the bipolar, horizontal and amacrine cells. And the ganglion layer contains retinal ganglion cells, which are the output neurons that generate action potentials that are transmitted by the optic nerve to the brain.  
Retinal ganglion cells are the only cell type in the retina capable of generating action potentials. All other cells in the retina, possibly with the sole exception of select amacrine cell types, respond to stimulation with graded changes in their membrane potential.  
The receptive field is organized in a center-surround organization. For some cells a response can be recorded when the center of the receptive field is illuminated, but this response was abolished when the surround was illuminated as well. We call these cells ON center cells. Similarly, there are receptive fields with an OFF center-surround organization that work in the reciprocal way.  
Most retinal ganglion cells respond better to well aimed small spots of light then to diffuse light due to the fact that the center-surround organization of the receptive field enhances sensitivity to edges and contrast.  
Based on the responses to glutamate released by photoreceptors, bipolar cells can be classified as either ON or OFF cells.  
In off bipolar cells, glutamate gated cation channels mediate a depolarizing excitatory postsynaptic potential after sodium influx.  
In on bipolar cells, G protein-coupled receptors respond to glutamate released by the photoreceptors by hyperpolarizing.  
It's worth pointing out that the labels, Off and ON, for bipolar cells refer to the fact that these cells depolarize in response to light off (more glutamate) or light on (less glutamate).  
Each bipolar cell receives direct synaptic input from a cluster of photoreceptors ranging from one to thousands in number. In addition, each bipolar cell is also connected via horizontal cells to a ring of photoreceptors that surround the central direct cluster. Thus the receptive field to which these cells respond, consists of two parts, a circular central area providing direct input from the photoreceptors and it's surrounding area of retina providing indirect input by horizontal cells. Consequently, the name center-surround.  
Generally speaking, the response of bipolar cell's membrane potential to light in the center of the receptive field is opposite to the response in the surround irrespective of whether the cell is classified as ON or OFF center cell.  
This center-surround organization is passed on from the bipolar cells to retinal ganglion cells via synapses in the ganglion cell layer. And in addition, modulated by the action of amacrine cells and the lateral pathway in this layer coordinating the integrating rod and cone inputs in the retinal ganglion cells.  
Some retinal ganglion cells have more complex response profiles than simple center-surround receptive fields. For instance, some respond selectively to particular colors or movement of light patterns across local regions of the retina.  

The neural pathways that leave the eye, beginning with the optic nerve, are often collectively referred to as the retinofugal pathway. A significant subset of retinal projections go to a structure called the tectum or colliculus, which is a low level brain structure situated atop the brainstem. The tectum is involved in orienting to stimuli from the environment.  
Other retinal axons go to other smaller nuclei in the brain, such as the accessory optic system. These nuclei are involved in involuntary reflexes such as the optic kinetic reflex.  
Another major projection goes to the thalamus, a key way station in the middle of the brain, which then projects onto the cerebral cortex. A great deal of processing happens in our visual cortex and our conscious perception of vision resides here.  
The retinofugal projection has five major parts before reaching the visual cortex, which in order include the optic nerve, the optic chiasma, the optic tract, the Lateral geniculate nucleus, and the optic radiation.  

# Lateral Geniculate Nucleus
The Lateral Geniculate Nucleus (LGN) is a cluster of neurons in the ventro-lateral part of the thalamus that is important for visual processing.  
The LGN located in the left hemisphere processes input originating from the right visual field, while the LGN located in the right hemisphere processes input from the left visual field. It's been shown that the ipsilateral and contra-lateral axons from the retina project each into three distinct layers, six in total, which encode three functional streams of information.  
Anatomically, the two most ventral layers contain larger neurons, the magnocellular, or m-type neurons. All the four more dorsal layers contain smaller neurons, the parvocellular, or p-type neurons. In addition, tiny neurons are found in between each layer called the koniocellular neurons. These three cell types in the LGN are innervated by specific axons from the retinal ganglion cells in an example of parallel processing.  
Magnocellular neurons display large center surround receptive fields and show transient bursts of firing in response to moving objects.  
Parvocellular neurons display small center surround receptive fields and show sustained firing in response to object shape.  
Lastly, koniocellular neurons appear to be involved in representing certain color information.  
Axons from the LGN neurons project onward to the primary visual cortex (V1) at the back of the brain which is the first region in cortex to receive visual input.  
The retina is not the main source of synaptic input to the LGN. About 80% of excitatory synapses found in the LGN come back from the visual cortex.  
Feedback activity reverberating through thalamocortical loops gives rise to some of the rhythmic brainwave features that can be measured with electroencephalography.  
Axons from the LGN innervate cortex in an orderly fashion that preserves
the spatial x,y organization of the retina in the spatial dimensions of the 2D cortical sheet. This orderly pattern of connections is referred to as retinotopy.  
Unlike the LGN where every layer gets incoming neural input from the retina and sends outgoing axons to the cortex, the primary visual cortex input arrives in very specific layers of the structure. The largest input occurs in the spiny stellate neurons in layer 4, which includes information from the magnocellular and parvocellular neurons in the LGN. LGN inputs to layers 2 and 3 come primarily from koniocellular neurons in the LGN. The input driven by the left and right eyes remain segregated from each other in the ocular dominance columns.  
Binocular responses to stimuli first occur in the V1 brain region where information is synthesized from both eyes to form a response instead of just having the the presence of tracts from both eyes.  
There are two pathways starting from the occipital love at the back of the brain. First the ventral pathway which goes from the primary visual cortex to an area called V2, which is just in front of it and then goes down along the ventral surface of the brain to an area called V4 followed by an area called inferior temporal cortex.  These regions are building up progressively bigger and progressively more complex stimuli representations as visual information moves through the ventral visual pathway.  
So the dorsal pathway includes areas with names like MT for middle temporal area, which seems to be concerned with the direction of movement in the visual field. We also find areas like the posterior parietal area, which seem to be concerned with directing attention to particular parts of visual space, which is called spatial attention.  