# Basal Ganglia

The basal ganglia provide modulatory guidance for movement and learning and also plays a key role in emotional and cognitive functions. The basal ganglia is commonly referred to as a singular entity, but is in reality a collection of structures, including the striatum, globus pallidus, subthalamic nucleus and substantia nigra. These areas are critical for movement, learning, and other tasks related to behavioral control. The basal ganglia are anatomically very complex, as they are deeply interconnected with the neocortex, brainstem and [[thalamus]], among other brain areas. These extensive structural connections allow the basal ganglia to communicate with and influence the activity of a wide array of brain regions.  
The basal ganglia does not initiate voluntary motor movements, but rather, it provides modulatory guidance, helping determine which particular movements are carried out, when and how. Additionally, the basal ganglia is involved in procedural learning.  

## Direct and indirect pathways

The basal ganglia sends outputs to other brain regions through two distinct pathways: The direct and the indirect pathways.
These pathways involve the basal ganglia sending signals to the [[cerebral cortex]] through the [[thalamus]].  
The direct and indirect pathways appear to have opposite effects on the thalamus. Exciting the direct pathway has the net effect of exciting thalamic neurons, which in turn make direct excitatory connections onto motor neurons in the cerebral cortex. Exciting the indirect pathway, on the other hand, has the net effect of inhibiting thalamic neurons, preventing them from sending excitatory signals to the cerebral cortex. Thus, the direct pathway allows the basal ganglia to increase motor activity, and the indirect pathway allows the basal ganglia to decrease it.  

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[cerebral cortex]: ..\Cortical\cerebral-cortex "Cerebral Cortex"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"