# Cerebellum

The cerebellum does play a key role in motor programming although it doesn't generate motor activity itself. Rather, the cerebellum modifies both voluntary motor commands coming down from the cortex to the spinal cord and autonomic motor influences coming from the brainstem fine tuning each based on environmental context and learning outcomes. As such the cerebellum is thought to be a major facilitator of motor learning.  
More recently scientists have discovered a key role for the cerebellum in certain cognitive functions like language.  
The cerebellum appears as a separate structure attached to the bottom of the brain. While it accounts for only 10% of the brain's volume the cerebellum contains at least 50% of the brain's total neurons.  
Cerebellar neurons are packed into many tightly folded layers of cortex, which wind in deep petal-like grooves around a white matter core and converge on a fluid filled ventricle at their base. At the heart of the white matter lie four distinct clusters of cell bodies. These are the deep cerebellar nuclei. And they're the only part of the cerebellum that sends output to the rest of the brain.  

## Cerebellar neurons

Two types of neurons appear to play particularly dominant roles in cerebellar circuitry: The Purkinje cells and cerebellar granules cells.  
Purkinje neurons are a class of GABAergic interneurons with very large and characteristic dendritic arbors. They are some of the largest neurons in the brain. The only way that the information it encodes leaves this unique region is through the Purkinje cells, whose axon synapse onto the deep cerebellar nuclei, which in turn are the sole route through which signals leave the cerebellum as a whole. Since the Purkinje cells are GABAergic, they exert inhibitory influence over the deep cerebellar nuclei.  

the granule cells in the cerebellum are the smallest neurons in the brain and send out only four or five dendrites per cell. These dendrites have characteristic enlargements at their ends, known as dendritic claws, and are Tthe sites of excitatory and inhibitory input from other neurons. The strength of the granule cells is in their numbers since they are by far the most numerous neuron in the cerebellum hugely outnumbering the giant Purkinje cells. The granule cells are functionally distinct from Purkinje cells. They are glutamatergic and excitatory. 

## Cerebellar cortex

The cerebellar cortex is made up of three layers.  
The innermost layer contains the nuclei of the 50 billion cerebellar granule cells pressed in against the deeper white matter.  
The next layer contains the cell bodies of the Purkinje cells, which is just one cell layer thick.  
Finally the outer layer of the cerebellar cortex contains the axons of the granule cells as well as densely branching dendrites from the Purkinje cells.  
In addition to the cell bodies of the Purkinje and granule cells, the cerebellar cortex contains three prominent types of axonal projections: Mossy fibers, climbing fibers and parallel fibers.
And their interactions with the Purkinje and granule cells mediate key functional processes within the cerebellum.  
Mossy fibers and climbing fibers provide inputs to the cerebellum from the rest of the brain. The mossy fibers originate in the brain stem and make excitatory connections onto cell bodies in the deep cerebellar nuclei as well as onto the granule cells in the cerebellar cortex. Each individual mossy fiber exerts widespread influence. Indeed, a single mossy fiber innervates hundreds of granule cells.  
The second type of axonal projection, the climbing fibers, come exclusively from a particular region in the medulla called the inferior olive. These fibers have long axons which climb up the dendrites of Purkinje cells like ivy. Each Purkinje cell receives one very powerful input from a single climbing fiber. Indeed although each climbing fiber contacts only about 10 Purkinje cells, it contacts each of these cells in about 300 different places.  
Thus the brain stem provides two types of input, widespread influence of many granule cells with each mossy fiber and powerful control of a few Purkinje cells with a climbing fiber. Actually both types of input have their end effect on Purkinje cells. This is due to the activity of a third type of axonal projection, actually, that comes from inside the cerebellum itself. These parallel fibers are axons of the granule cells, which split into the topmost cortical layer, run in parallel to the folds of the cerebellar cortex, and perpendicular to the Purkinje cell dendritic arbors. This particular organization allows each parallel fiber to come into contact with hundreds of Purkinje cells as it runs through the cortex. And each Purkinje cell is contacted by thousands of parallel fibers. Since mossy fibers control broad populations of granule cell firing, they have a significant influence on Purkinje cell activity as well. In fact, while acting disynaptically through the granule cells may seem inefficient, it actually greatly increases the power of each mossy fiber since parallel fibers carry the mossy fiber signal far and wide.  
Due to consistent parallel fiber stimulation the Purkinje cells reliably fire about 70 spikes per second tonically inhibiting the cerebellar nuclei. Much rarer is the activation due to the climbing fibers. But when these activations occur they're highly powerful and can induce long lasting changes in the excitability of Purkinje cells. Indeed, climbing fiber mediated changes in the strength of parallel fiber inputs to the Purkinje cells are thought to underlie motor learning in the cerebellum, making pathways corresponding to correct behavioral paths stronger than those corresponding to weak ones. Climbing fibers fire specifically when a desired motor outcome does not correlate with the actual motor behavior that an individual produces to weaken the strength of paths corresponding to the wrong motor behavior. As such the next time the same behavioral context occurs, the incorrect behavior is less likely to be repeated. Mossy fiber and climbing fiber inputs thus provide fiber specific input information to facilitate learning of particular motor programs.  