# Limbic System

The limbic system includes but is not limited to the olfactory bulbs, [[hippocampus]], amygdala, anterior thalamic nuclei, fornix, septum, habenula, cingulate gyrus, limbic cortex and mid brain areas.
Consequently, the limbic system is involved in creating emotional and motivational context to your experience of the world. It is what controls feelings like fear, pleasure, and adrenaline. The specific physical states we link to particular emotions appear to be largely generated by the limbic system. The limbic system is also strongly involved in the formation of memories, particularly when memories have emotional significance. The limbic system's many structures each play a role in balancing how we perceive environmental stimuli.
These two small, almond-shaped masses sit at the base of the [[thalamus]], deep in each temporal lobe.  
Like the [[basal ganglia]] and the [[thalamus]], they are composed of a set of separate nuclei, each with distinct structural and functional characteristics.  
Each amygdala sends neuronal projections to the [[hypothalamus]], the [[thalamus]], the nuclei of the trigeminal nerve and facial nerve and many other areas of the brain. Each receives input from each of the senses.  
Information regarding taste, touch, smell and vision comes into the amygdala from both the [[thalamus]] and the cortex.  
The amygdalae have been shown to play a major role in the processing of memory and decision making, especially in processing memories that have emotional significance, making decisions based on those memories. Amygdalar activity is therefore associated with the experience of a wide range of emotional mental states and the performance of emotionally driven behaviors.  

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[hippocampus]: hippocampus "Hippocampus"
[thalamus]: thalamus "Thalamus"
[basal ganglia]: basal-ganglia "Basal Ganglia"
[hypothalamus]: hypothalamus "Hypothalamus"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"